Further research on narrative pace.
===================================

Using data originally gathered in collaboration with Jessica Mercado and Sabrina Lee.

data
-----

The data you want is probably **2018segleveldata.csv**. That file breaks out each 250-word segment individually, with information on the author, title, and date of the book, as well as the estimated duration described, and the text of the passage itself.

Some obscure details: Duration is saved (in the **time** column) as natural_log(minutes/words). If you want the raw estimated time in minutes, it has to be retrieved from **/rawdata**.

The column **col** stores the name of the reader, except for biographies, which are marked as biographies.

The column **dialog** stores estimated fraction of the passage that is dialog. **hardraw** stores the fraction of the passage that comes from the Stanford list of "hard seeds."

This data was generated by **parsetime2018.py.**

If you want to do analysis without touching the validation set, you may prefer to use a subset of this data, contained in **data2model.csv**. This excludes 18 held-out volumes that I am being careful not to touch.

analysis
---------

There are two notebooks you might want to glance at

**paceacrossnarrative** is a mostly inconclusive initial exploration, suggesting that pace has a U shape in fiction. I also think the U shape gets less marked as we go forward into the 20c, but would really need more data to establish that.

**first_model** is an attempt to develop a predictive model of duration based on passage text. It performs actually a bit better than I expected. With tuning, *r* is around .64 at the passage level and .76 at the volume level.

I exclude a group of 18 volumes from the modeling as a "validation set."
